## More on Haskell types 

Expressions when evaluated, reduce to *values*. and every value has a *type*, and
types are nothing more than a way to group a set of values together that share,
somthing in common.(Set theory hits again << types just sets of values>>)

* **Data declarations** they are the values that inhabit the type they are  defined
  in. they also define new datatypes in haskell. data declarations always create
  a new type constructor, but may or may not create new data constructors, they are
  how we refer to the entire definition that begins with the `data` keyword.
  
  * **Data Constructors** provide a means of creating values that inhabit a given type,
  they must have a type and can either be constant values (*nullary*), or take one or
  more arguments, just like functions.
  
  * **Type constroctors(type names)** are not values and can only be used in type signatures, just
  as data constructors generate data constructos to create values that inhabit that
  type, data declarations generate *type constructors* which can be used to denote that
  type.
  ```
  data Bool = False  |  True //this whole thing is a data declaration
  //   [1]     [2]  [3]  [4]
  1 ==> type constructor for datatype Bool
  2 ==> Data constructor for the value False
  3 ==> logical disjunction
  4 ==> Data constructor for thr value True
  ```
* **Tuples** are a thing in haskell, and it is an ordered grouping of values, but
  u can't have a tuple of one element but there exist a *unit tuple*, that is a
  representation of an empty tuple denoted by `()`.
  types of a tuple may vary there is no constaraints on that.
  They are used as a convenient way to carry around some values without giving them
  unique endivitual names.
  
* **typeclass** is a set of operations defined with respect to a polymorhic type,
  when a type has an instance of a typeclass, values of that type can be used in the
  standred operations defined for that typeclass.
  typeclasses are a unique pairings pf class and concrete instance.
