# GraphQL Spec: 2

## Type System:
the type system describes the capabilities of a GraphQL server and is used to determine if a query
  is valid, it also describes the input types of the query vars.

**TypeSystemDefinition** : 
* SchemaDefinition
* TypeDefinition
* DirectiveDefinition

The GraphQL language include a IDL(*interface drfinition language*) which is used to describe a service's
type system.

**TypeSystemExtention** :
* SchemeExtention
* TypeExtention

they are used to represent a GraphQL type system which has been extended from some
original type system.

### Schema
**SchemaDefinition** :
* schema Directives[const, opt]  { RootOperationTypeDefinition[list] }

**RootOperationTypeDefinition** :
* OperationType : NamedType


A GraphQL service's collective type system capabilities are referred to as the service's **schema**.
A *schema* is defined in terms of the types and directives it supports as well as the root operation
types for each kind of operations: query, mutation and subsciption; this 
determines the place in the type system where those operations begin.


*the rules for a valid schema*:
1.  all types within a schema must have unique names.
2.  all directives must have unique names too.
3.  any type or directive defined inside a schema must not begin with "__".


#### Root Operation Types:
a schema defines the *initial* type for each kind of operation it supports: query, mutation ,and subscription
; this determines the place in the type system where thos operations begin.

1.  the query root operation type must be an object type.
2.  the mutation root operation id optinal; if it is not provided, the service does not support 
    mutations, it must be an object type.
3.  subscription root type are similar to mutation root types, they are optinal and if used must
    be an object type.

The *fields* on the query root operation indicate what fields are availabe at the top level
of a GraphQL query. EXAMPLE :
```


schema {
  query: MyQueryRootType
  mutation: MyMutationRootType
}

type MyQueryRootType {
  someField: String
}

type MyMutationRootType {
  setSomeField(to: String): String
}
```


### Schema Extension:
**SchemaExtension** :
* extend schema *Directives*[Const, opt] { OpetationTypeDefinition[list] }
* extend schema *Directives*[Const]

Schema extension are used to represent a schema whihc has been exteneded from the original schema.
this might be used by GraphQL service which adds functional operation types, or additional
directives.

* Schema Validation: Schema extensions have the potintial to be invalid if incorrectly defined.
  1.  the schema must already be defined.
  2.  any directives provided must not already apply to the original schema.

## Types:

**TypeDefintion** :
* ScalarTypeDefinition
* ObjectTypeDefinition
* InterfaceTypeDefinition
* UnionTypeDefinition
* EnumTypeDefinition
* InputObjectTypeDefinition














