# Concurrency models in go

Concurrency is the breaking of a single working process
into multible compoments and manage how the data is
being shared among them.(concurrency does not equal parallalizm, the latter is just a mere model of the formar)

the first model is **Goroutines**, they are process that
are assigned to operating system threads managed by go
runtime and are accully alocated when the program first
is executed, to be used later when needed.
goroutines are better than good old fashion threads for:
  * they are faster then them hince no resources are 
  allocated when needed.
  * there stack is consedirably smaller than os level
  threads and have the ability to grow when needed.
  * switching between goroutines is way faster since 
  no os sysem call was invoced.

and a goroutine can be launched simply by placing the
*go* keyword before the fucntion call.

moving on to another intersting concept that is **channels**,
channels are simply put the communication medium between
goroutines(yep a just glotified good old pipes), and are 
a built-in data type and can be delared with the make 
keyword:
```
ch := make(chan int)
```
and like maps they are just pointers so when passed to 
a function, a refrence is passed instead of the value, 
reading and writting to channels is quite easy :
* reading 
```
  // to read place a <- before the channel
  a := <- ch;

```
* writing
```
  // to write we place <- to the right
  ch <- b;
```
values can only be read once, so if multible goroutines 
are reading from a channel, a value written to the 
channelcan only be read by one of them.

by defualt channels are not buffured so when a goroutine
writes to it, it gets blocked untils a read happeds and 
vise versa. But we can decalre buffured channels by 
supplying a size to the make function.

*reading from a chanel* can be done by a simple for loop
```
for v := range ch {
  fmt.println(v)
}
```
and *closing a chennel* is done by the close() function
(and that responsibily falls on the writting goroutine)
```
close(ch)
```

lastly the **select** keyword, its is similar to the 
switch statment, but does not use order, instead will
process any available option at totall ramdomness, 
select is usually paired with a for statement.
