# Lambda calculas and Functional programming

* **lambda calculas** is one process for formalizing a method just like *turing machines*
, it formalies the concept of effective conputability( determine whether a problem or
a problem-class can be solved).

* **functional programming** is a compuer programming paradigm, where prgrames are
a combination of *expressions* that are made of  values,variables and functions. 
where the latter is modeled onmathimatical functions.

* in functional programming we say that functions are first degree citizens meaning
, the can be treated just like variable and concrete values(can be stored in a variable,
passed as an argument or returned from a function).

* **Haskell** is a *pure* functional langauge which implies that any expression witten
in haskell can be directly translated into lambda calculas. and the word pure is
often used also to mean *referential transparency*, meaing a function returns the same
value given the same arguments.

* **functions** are just borrowed here, meaning they are nothing more than a relationship
that maps values from one set(inputs) to outputs set. The same input values must
always return the same values but does not mean the values must be different.(set thory payed offf)

* **lambda expressions** are made of 3 componnets also known as *lambda terms*: expressions
, varaibles and abstractions. 
  1. a *variable* here have no meanig whatsoever just a name for potential inputs to functions.
  2. *expressions* are a superset(at least one element set) of
  variable name , an abstraction or a combinations of both.
  3. an *abstraction* is a function. abstractions have to parts: the head and the body.
  the head is a $\lambda$ (lambda) followed by a varibale name, and the body is just
  another expression. 
  so a simple function looks somthing like this $\lambda x.x$.

* **Beta Reduction**, the purpose of abstractions here is to bind a veriable, and we
can elimenate that use beta reduction, by subtituting the input expression fot all instances 
of bound variables within the body of abstraction. well this is whole bunch of words
probably some examples would do better than any words.
  1. ***Example 01:*** ===> **$\lambda x.x+1$**
    *firstly* we will do the reduction using the value 5. We apply the function defined
    above to the value 5, meaning subtituting every insctance of the variable with 5,
    and eliminating the head:
        <pre>
        (&#x1D7B4x.x+1) 5
          &#x21DB 5+1  // complitly eliminated the head (( &#x1D7B4x)
                 // and replaced every x in the body with a 5
          &#x21DB 6
        </pre>
  
  2. ***Example 02:*** ===> **$\lambda x.x$ $\lambda y.y$**
    this one looks abit more trickier but we apply the same rules we defined earlier 
    we are going to find that it is just the same as the other.
    we are gonna reduce it use some value *z*.
     <pre>
     (&#x1D7B4x.x) (&#x1D7B4y.y) z
     
          &#x21DB (&#x1D7B4y.y) z  // complitly eliminated the head (( &#x1D7B4x)
                       // and replaced every x in the body with &#x1D7B4y.y
                       
          &#x21DB z // complitly eliminated the head ( &#x1D7B4y)
              // and replaced every y in the body with z  
     </pre>

* **Simplification**, there are mulitble normal form, but we are mainly concerned 
with *beta normal form* and it we get there when we can't reduce the terms any further.

* **Combinators** are lambda terms with no simple varibales, we are gonna need them 
later along the way so just keep them in mind.

* **Divergence** are the lambda terms that have a never ending reducing process such
the following term: 
<pre> 
(&#x1D7B4x.xx) (&#x1D7B4x.xx) 
</pre>
