# Intro to Haskell

<sup>extention for [Lambda calculas and Functional programming](https://github.com/halladj/me/blob/main/zettelkasten/20220930112510.md)</sup>

Haskell overall offers two ways of working with code, a **compiler(GHS)**, or the
interavtive REPL known as **GHCi**.

* **The REPL**, the ghci automaticaly loads a library of standerd funtions called
  *Preslude*, and it can be turned off tho.
  the following code is gonna show how to load a function into the REPL:
  ```
  sayHello :: String -> IO() //THE SYMBOLE :: IS USED TO DEFINE A NEW TYPE

  sayHello x = putStrLn("Hello, "++ x ++"!") // A DECLARATION OF TYPE sayHello
  ```
  then run the following command in the REPL `:load [file_name.hs]`, to load it into
  the interperter.
  
* **Back to some THEORY**, Everything in Haskell is either a *Expression* or a
  *Declaration*, the former can be values, combination of values or functions
  applied to values, and then expressions are evaluated into *results*, whereas
  declarations are top-level bindings which allows us to name expressions, allowing
  us to refer to them multiple times without rewriting the thing over and over again.
  
  [*back to normal forms(NF)*](https://github.com/halladj/me/blob/main/zettelkasten/20220930112510.md),
  an expression is in normal form when it can't be reduced any more for exmaple
  the noraml form of the expression `1 + 1` is `2`. Reducible expresions are often
  called *redexes*.
 
 * **Functions** are just expressions in Heskell, and are a direct image of mathimatical
   functions where they represent only a maping from on set to another. All functions
   in haskell share the property of lambda expression where they take only one argumnet
   and return only one value.
   
   *function definition*, firstly the start with the name of the function, followed 
   by the formal params separated only by a white space. after that there is equal sign
   finally there is the expression the is th body of the body. Example `let triple x = x * 3`.
   
   
   ***let*** & ***wherer***, let is used to interduce expressions, so it is used whernever 
   you can have an expression, whereras where is a declaration and is bound to some
   sorounding construct. and these exmaples show the differance: 
   ```
   //USING WHERE
   printInc n = print plusTwo
                where plusTwo = n + 2
   
   
   //USING LET
   
   printInc2 n = let plusTwo = n + 2
                  in print plusTwo       
  ```
