# The Docker Overview

Docker is an open-source platform for developing, shipping, and runnning applications. It enables you
to separate your application from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly.

## The Docker platform:
It gives the ability to package and run an application in a loosley isolated envirement called container.
The isolation and security of a container allows as to run multiple on the same host.
Docker also provides tooling and a platform to manage the lifecycle of containers.

## What can we use Docker for:
1.  Fast, consistant delivery of your code, and this is the main selling point if docker.
2.  Responsice Deployment and scalling.
3.  Running more workloads on the same hardware.

## Docker Architecture:
It uses the *Client-Server* Architecture. The **Docker client** talks to the **Docker Daemon**, which handles the main
functionalities such *building*, running, and distributing Docker containers.
another **Docker client** is *Dcoerk-Compose*, that lets you work with applications consisting of a set of Containers.


* **Docker Daemon**, litents for Docker API requesnts.
* **Docker Client**
* **Docker Desktop**, it is bundel that compians the Docker daemon, docker client, docker content trust, and K8s.

## What is a Container:
A container is a **sandboxed** process on you machine that is isolated from the other processes
on the host machine. That isolation leverages << **Kernel namespaces** & **cgroups** >>, features that
have been present in linux for a long time. Docker made it easy to put these compabilities into work.

A *container* is 1) a runnable instance of an image, that can be staretd, moved, and deleted, using the 
docker API or the client.  2) can be run on local machines, virtual machines or deployed on the cloud.  3) is portable.
4) is isolated from other containers.

## What is an Image:
When running a comtainer, it uses an isolated filesystem. This custom filesystems are provided by the **container image**.
Since the image contains the containers filesystem. it must contain everthing needed to run the application, such
all dependencies, configurationm scripts, binaries, etc.



