# PL/SQL(3-1), Data Types

Every PL/SQL constant, variable, parameter, and function return value has a 
**data type** that determines its storage format and its valid values 
and operations. 

This chapter explains scalar data types, which store values with 
no internal components. 

A scalar data type can have subtypes. A **subtype** is a data type that is a subset 
of another data type, which is its **base type**. A subtype has the same valid 
operations as its base type. A data type and its subtypes comprise a 
**data type family**, and the scaler types are: 
  1. The SQL data types
  2. BOOLEAN
  3. PLS_INTERGER
  4. BINARY_INTEGER
  5. REF CURSOR
  6. User-defined subtypes

## SQL Data Type:
it has all the old SQL data type we are used to and know, such: *VARCHAR*, *CHAR*, *LONG*, etc.

The are some slight deffirences between varchar and char, notably, that char would pad
any variable to it max capacity, but varchar won't, making varchar better for perserving that information.

* Floating-point arithmitic operations doesn not raise exceptions, so we must test for overflow
  using constants.

## BOOLEAN Data Type:
boolean data type are self explinatory, so a quick example is enough:
```
PROCEDURE print_boolean (b BOOLEAN)
AS
BEGIN
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE (
    CASE
      WHEN b IS NULL THEN 'Unknown'
      WHEN b THEN 'Yes'
      WHEN NOT b THEN 'No'
    END
  );
END;

BEGIN
  print_boolean(TRUE);
  print_boolean(FALSE);
  print_boolean(NULL);
END;

```

## PLS_INTERGER & BINARY_INETER Data Types:
PLS_INTEGER and BINARY_INTEGER are equivelent data types, they store signed intergers 
in 32 bits fashion, and it is more effecient than *NUMBER*, since it is uses less storage,
and uses hardware operations.

its subtypes are:
  1. NATURAL
  2. NARURALN
  3. POSITIVE
  4. POSITIVEN
  5. SIGNTYPE
  6. SIMPLE_INTEGER

they can be casted to *CHAR*, *VARCHAR*, *NUMBER*, *LONG*.


## User-Defined PL/SQL Types:
PL/SQL lets you define your own subtypes, the base type can any scaler type, or
user-defined PL/SQL data type specifier such as CHAR, DATE, or RECOREd. With following 
syntax, ***`SUBTYPE subtype_name IS base_type`***. a practical example is:
```
SUBTYPE "DOUBLE PRECISION" IS FLOAT
```



