# PL/SQL(1) 

## Overview of PL/SQL langauge
It is a procedural language that works as an extention to SQL, it is a **transaction processing**
language.

### Advantages:
* *Tight Integration with SQL*, Where it supports all SQL operators, loops, function, procedures
  and it also supports all SQL data types. 
  1. It also allows us to **run SQL queries** and process the rows of the result set on at the time.
  2. functions can be declared in the **WITH** clauses of the **SELECT** statemants.

* *Hight Performance* lets you send a block of statements to the database, reducion traffic
  between application.
  1. Bind Variables, when you embed a SQL INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, MERGE, or SELECT statement directly in
     your code, The compiler turns the variables in the WHERE and VALUES clauses into bind
     variables.
  2. Subprograms, They are stored in **binary or executable** form, Which can be invoked repedatly.
  3. Optimizer, the Compiler has a built-in optimizer, that can re-arange the code for better performance.

* *Hight Productivity*, many tools for desing and debuggin.
* *Portability*, can run with any system with oracle database, so it's a cross-plateform language.
* *Manageability*, since we keep sub-programes in the database server, there is no need to keep
  multiple versions in diffirent machines.
* *Support Object-Oriented Programming*, allows for object definition.

### Main Features: 
PL/SQL combines the data manipulation of SQL and the processing power of procedural langaues. When you can
solve a problem with SQL, you can issue SQL statements from you PL/SQL program, without learning new API.
main features:
* *Error Handeling*, it makes it easy to detect and handle errors. When an error eccours, PL/SQL raises
  an Exception, and the exception handling part of the code excutes.
  
* *Blocks*, The basic unit of a PL/SQL source prgorame is the **Block**, which groups related
  declarations and statements. A block is defined by the keywords **DECLARE**, **BEGIN**, **EXCEPTION**, and **END**.
  Decalarations are local to a block to reduce the bloat to a name space, but we can nist names sapces, since a block is 
  just an **executable statement**.

* *Variables and Constants*
* *Subprogrames*, are **named executables** that can invoked repedatly.
* *Package*, is a schema object that groups logically related PL/SQL types, variables, constants, subprograms, cursors, and Exceptions.
  A package is **compiled** and **stored in the database**.
* *Triggers*, is a unit that is stored in the database, the executes in response to 
  an event that occurs in the database.

* *Data abstraction*
* *Control Statements*, are one of the important extention to SQL if not the most important,
  there are 3 categories of control statements:
  1. **Conditioinal Selection Statements**, which lets you run diffirent statements for diffirent data values.
  2. **Loop statements**, to repeat or iterate over something.
  3. **Sequential Control Statements**, which allows you to go to a specified series of diffirent data values.

* *Conditional Compilation*.
* *Processing A Query Resualt set One Row at the Time*, we can use a loop to achive such a thing, or
  we can process precisly by using individual statements to run the query.








