# Docker Networking: Overview

* One of the reasons Docker Containers and services are so powerful id that you can connect
  them together, or connect them to non-Docker workloads.

## Network Drivers:
Docker's networking subsystem is *pluggable*, using drivers. Several drivers exist by default,
and provide core networking functionality:
  * ***Bridge***: the default driver. Bridge networks are  usually used when your application 
    run in a standalone contianers that need to conmmunicate.
    
  * ***Host***: for standalone applicationsm remove network isolation between the container and 
    the docker host and use the host's network directly.
    
  * ***Overlay***: they connect multiple docker daemons together and ebable swarm services
    to communicate with each other. you can also use overlay networks to dacilitate communication
    between  a swarm service and a standalone container, or between two standalone container on different
    docker daemons. *it removes the need for os-level routing between these containers*.
  
  * ***ipvlan***: they give users total contril over both IPv4 and IPv6 addressing. The VLAN
    driver builds on top of that in giving operators complete control of layer 2 VLAN tagging and even IPvlan L#
    routing.
    
  * ***macvlan***: they allow you to assign a MAC address to a container, making it appear as a physical 
    device on you network. The docker daemon routes traffic to containers by the MAC addresses.
    
  * ***none***: to disable all networking. usually used in conjunction with custom network driver.

## Network driver summary:
  * **User-defined bridge networks** are best when you need multiple containers to communicate on the dame docker host.
  * **Host networks** are when the network stack should not be isolated from docker host, but you want other aspects 
    of the container to be isolated.
  * **Overlay networks** are best when you need containers runnig on different dokcer hosts to
    communicate, or when multiple applications work together in swarm services.
  * **Macvlan networks** are bes when you are migrating from a VM setup or need your containers
    to look like physical hosts on you network , each with a unique MAC address.
