# The Docker Overview(1-2)

## Prisist The DB:
when a container runs, it uses the various layers from an image for its filesystem. Each container also gets its
own "scratch space" to create/update/remove files. **Any changes won't be seen** in any other container.

So we could opt to use **Volumes** to persest data, to save changes across containers. Basicly volumns
provide the ability to connect specific filesystem paths of the container bach to the host machine. so we could see
changes across container restarts.

we could create a new volume using the command `$ docker volume create <<volume_name>>` and then we mount that 
volumn to an image in it creation. An example of the later could be:
```
docker run -dp 3000:3000 --mount type=volume,src=<< volume_name >> target=/etc/path  IMAGE_NAME
```
we could now remove that container, and start a new one using the same volumn and we would find our data 
is persistent and not lost.

lastly we could find some meta-data about our volums using the `inspect command`.

## Use Bind Mounts:
A bind mount is another type of mounts, which lets you share a directory from the host's machine filesystem into
the container. When working on an application we could **bind mount** souce code into the container *dev env*.

For example we could try them out in a simple development enviroment as so:
```
$ docker run -it --mount type=bind,src="$(src)",target=/src ubuntu bash
```
* This is a better example of a *dev env*:
  ```
  $ docker run -dp 3000:3000 \
      -w /app   --mount type=bind,src="(pwd)",target=/app \
      node:18-alpine \
      sh -c "yarn install && yarn run dev"
  ```
  now i could explain each part and what it means:
    * *-dp 3000:3000*, the **d** stands for detach and it means running the container in the background, and the **-p 3000:3000**, is for exposing the container 3000 post on the realmahcin 3000 port
    * *-w /app*, sets the **working dir** to the */app* dir in out machine, meaning that the commend is gonna be executed here in the /app dir inside the container.
    * *-- mount type=bind,src="($pwd)",target/app*, we already touched on this part up top.
    * *sh -c "yarn install && yarn dev"*, the command to be run in the working dir.

at the end we could build the last congtainer to an **image** using the following command  `$ docker build -t < some_name >`
