# Docker Security (part-1):

there are four main areas to consider when talking about docker security:

    * The inseparable security of the *kernel* and its support for **namespaces & cgroups**
    * The attack surface of the Docker daemon itself.
    * loopholes in the container **configuration** profile, either by defualt, or when customized by users.
    * the **Hardening** security features of the kernel and how they interact with containers.

## Kernel Namespaces:

Docker containers are very similar to LXC containers, they have similar security features. When you start a container with `docker run`, behind the scenes Docker creates a set of _namespaces_ and _control groups_ for the container.

* **Namespaces provide the first and most strightforward form of isolation** process runnig within a container cannot see, or even less effect, processes runnig in anothercontainer, or in the host system.

* **Each container also gets its own network stack**, meaning that a container does not have access to the sockets or interfaces of another container. they are by-default connected using a bridge network driver meaning the act just like seperated physiccal sites conneted by a common Ethernet switch.

## Control Groups:

cgroups are another key component of linux containers. They implement resource accounting and limiting. The provide many useful metrics, but they also help ensure that each conatiner gets its fair share of memory, cpu, disk I/O; and ,more importantly, that a single container connot bring the system down by exhausting one of those resources.


## Docker Daemon Attack Surface:

Running containers with Docker implies running the Daemon. This Daemon requires `root` privilage unless you *opt-in to Rootless mode*.

* **Only trusted users should be allowed to control you docker daemon**, and this is a consequence of some powerful Docker features. for example *sharing a directory betweeen a conatiner and the docker host*, and nothing is stoping you from sharing the `/` of the Docker host.
