# Docker Storage ( PART 2 ) Volumes:
It is the prefered machanism for persisting data generated by and used by docker containers,
While *Bind Mounts* are dependent on the directory structure and the *os*, Volumes are completly managed by docker.

In addition, volumes are often a better choice than persisting data in a container's writable layer,
because a volume does not increase the size of the container using it, the data lives on outside the 
lifecycle of a given container.

## Choose the `-v` or `--mounr` flag:
In general, *`--mount`* is more explicit and verbose. The biggest differnce is the `-v` syntax
conbaines all the options together in one fieldm while the `-mount` seperates them.

* If you need to spicify volume driver options, you must use *`--mount`*.

## Create a Container with a volume:
If you create a docker container with a volume that does not exist yet, docker would create that
volume for you. The following example mounts the volume `myvol12` into `/app/` in the container.
 ```
 /*
    THE -=mount SYNTAX
 */
 $ docker run -d \
    --name devtest \
    --mount source=myvol12,target=/app/ \
    nginx:latest
    
 /*
    THE -V SYNTAX
 */
 $ docker run -d \
    --name devtest \
    --v myvol12:/app \
    nginx:latest
```  

## Start a service with volumes:
When you start a service and define a volume, each service container uses its own local volume. None
of the containers can share this data if you use the *`local` volume driver*, however some volume drivers 
do support shared storage.
* This example uses a `nginx` service with 4 replicas, with each of them using it own private memory:
  ```
  $ docker service create -d \
    -- replicas=4 \
    --name devtest-service \
    --mount source=myvol12,target=/app \
    nginx:latest
  ```
  when removing the service the volumes created won't be deleted automaticallt.
      
    
 ## Share data between machines:
 when building *fualt-tolerent* applications, you nay need to configure multupe replicas of the same
 service to have access to the same files.
 One way is implemnt in your application backing-up in some cloud service, anotherwat is to create
 volumes with a driver that supports writting files to an external storage ststem like *NTF* or *Amazon S3*.
 
 ## How to use a Volume Driver:
 when creating a new volume explicty or explicitly, we can specify a volume driver, For example we could
 we are gonna use the `vieux/sshfs` volume driver, first when creating a stnadalone volume, then when starting a container which creates a new volumes.
 
 
 
    
    
