# Connected Objects Diagnosability Problems:

We divide this chapter into three main dilemmas to deal with:
1. *Availability Problem* which covers the security and the 
reliability quality. 
2. *Service Contextualisation Problem*, that
covers also the security and the safety attributes based on the service
awareness. 
3. *Servitisation Problem* which covers the service assurance and the
suvivability for the service deliviry.


## Availability Problem:

* It is showen as a cybersecurity dilemma in IoT systems. The availability
  threats are one of the *Cybersecurity threats* that can be detected. characteristics of 
  things and their connected networks can be weak points more than advantages.

* The system's *availability problem* has been selected to be diagnosis over the
  detection, identification, and determination of fault location. Besides the elaboration of 
  os a recovery plan and verfied during the collaboration phase.

* Types of Threats:
    1. *Subtraction of Devices*.
    2. *DDOS Attacks*.
    3. *Attacks On-Path*.
    4. *Exhaustion of Node Resources & Service Theft*.


* Solutions DDOS Attacks:
    1. Protection
    2. Detection: 1) *Signature Based* 2)*Anomalies-Based* 3)*Hybrid*


## Contextualisation Problem:

* It is an important feature for decision making at any level,
  and especially in abnormal situations.

* The level of awernaness is defined according to surrouding data, received 
  information, experiences, and current reactions. 


## Servitisation Problem: 

* It is wrapping the system services, in other words, it is the discovery
  of the context services and locate them even if things bound using the information
  sharing over the collaboration, which allows the service transformation from things to
  other due to their portability and delegated for the exection part.
