# Docker Storage ( PART 1)
By defualt all files created inside a container are stored on a writable container layer,
meaning that the data does not get persist when that container no longer exists, the data is 
tightly coupled with the host machine so we can't move data easily, and it requires a storage
driver to manage it.

Docker provides mainly two options **Volumes**, and **Bind Mounts**, and lastly it supports as we said 
*storing files in memory*, on the host machine. On linux it uses *Tmpfs*, and on Windows it is called *Pipes*.

## Choose the right type of mount:

* No matter what type of mount you choose to use, it looks the same from within the container:
  * **Volumes**, are stored in a part of the host filesystem which is managed by docker `/var/lib/docker/volumes/`
    and, Non-docker process should not no modify this part of the filesystem (can be considered the best wat to persiste data).
  
  * **Bind Mounts**, may be stored anywhere in the filesystem on the host machine, Non-docker processes
    can chnage and alter this part of the filesystem.
    
  * **`tmpfs` Mounts**, are stored on the host memory only, and never written to the host system.


## Good use cases for volumes:
* Sharing data between multiple running containers, if you don't explicitly create it, a volumn is created
  the first time it is mounted into a container. When the container gets removed the volume still exists.
  
* To store data on a remote server, cloud provider for example.
* when you want to back up, restore, or migrate data from one docker host to another.

## Good use cases for bind mounts:
* Sharing config files from the host machine to containers. for example that is how to provide
  DNS resolution to containers by defualt.
  
* Sharing source code or build artifacts between a dev env and a docker host.

## Good use cases for tmpfs mounts:
* when you don't want the data to be persisy wither on the host machine or within the container
  this maybe for security reasons, or perfomance reasons.


