# Introduction:

* The topology of a distributed system can be typically
  viewed as an undirected graph in which the nodes represent
  the processors and the edges represent the links
  connecting the processors.

* The distributed application execution is comprised of the
  execution of instructions, including the communication
  instructions, within the distributed application program.

* In many cases, a control algorithm also needs to be
  executed in order to monitor the application's execution or
  to perform various auxiliary functions. The control
  algorithm performs functions such as:
    * distributed deadlock detection.
    * termination detection.
    * global state recording.
    * creating a spanning tree.

## The Proposed Solutions
* Why spanning-tree algorithms & where and when to use them.

* Small recap of some graph theory stuff needed in the following topics.

* The *centralized approach* using Kruskal Algorithma.

* A really simple ***NON OPTIMAL*** algorithms that serves
   as a foundation for what's next.
   (*single-initiator spanning tree algorithm using flooding*)

* A distributed algorithm based on the Kruskal Algorithm
    (**GHS Spanning-Tree Algotithm**)
    [*Gallagher, Humblet, and Spira*]
 * *By Example*, executing the algorithm step by step with virtual diagrams.

## Questions
* Example solved by the audience ( if we had enough time)

## used resourses:
* book [*Distributed Computing Principles Algorithms and Systems-Cambridge*]
* artical [*https://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~afek/p66-gallager.pdf*]
* slides [*http://www.nitttrc.edu.in/nptel/courses/video/106106168/lec14.pdf*]
