# Cross-platform mobile development on Linux:

I have always heard about cross-platform mobile application development frameworks(React-native & flutter), and how they make it trivial to maintain a single code base for your application. But how true of a statement is it when it comes to someone on Linux wishing to develop an application with some native networking features?


## It is true to some extent:

Two years ago I was working on my thesis and it involved  creating a simple mobile application to act as a client for an ML prediction model, on that project I didn't need any native support and it was only a prototype, which meant I only build it on *android*. so theoretically I could have built it for *ios* using any cloud service since you need an Apple machine to build it.

But now I would need to make a development build so often to test my application on both platforms and even write some native code( *swift & kotlin* ) to wrap it all together. But how to achieve that one Linux only?


## Virtualization is always a solution:

The first thing that came to mind was using a traditional commercial Virtual Machine Monitor like *Virtual Box*, or *VM Ware* but soon enough I found out after some degging that to use MacOs using them you had to edit the virtual machine config files manually and also *to format a virtual disk using the cli* since MacOs won't accept using a regular virtual disk. I followed the docs and some tutorials but I couldn't manage to get it running.

Then a tool named [***quickemu***](https://github.com/quickemu-project/quickemu) came to the rescue. It is a wrapper around *qemu* that makes creating a Virtual machine using *qemu* trivial, it auto-downloads the images for you, generates the config files, and creates and mounts the virtual disk into place. Just by following the docs on their github, you could get a *MacOS Ventura VM* running in no time and without any hustle.


## React-Native on Quickemu:

After you are done with the installation. Now comes the development environment set-up. Head to Download *Xcode* which is Apple's answer to Android Studio and the android-sdk. after some testing I found out that a *specific* Xcode version is needed to work with **MacOs Ventura** which is **Xcode 14.3.1**.

Some More set-up is still needed till we can build a react-native application on our local machine, you must install **cocoapod**, the latest version of **Ruby**, and **node@18**. I recommend using the *HomeBrew* package manager to get the latest version of the mentioned tools.


## Now The Development:

Now you should be able to build React-native using the *react-native cli* by just following the [toturail](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup?guide=native) on their official docs. But if you are using *expo tooling* there is one thing that must be kept in mind, which is adding the ***static linkage*** in the `Pod` file. This can be done by adding the following line to the `Pod` file.

