# GraphQL Spec: 1

## Overview
**GraphQL** is a query language(not programming language), designed to build client apps
by providing an inutitive and flexibale syntx and system for describing their data requirements.

for example this snipet will recive tha name of the user *with id = 4* from
facebook graphQL omplementation( which returns JSON):
```
{
  user(id: 4){
    name
  }
}
```
GraphQL is plateform independent and is an abstaraction layer that can be used
with whatever programming language or stirage system, it's goal it to 
uniform the langauage, type system and philosophy.

GraphQL design principles:
1. Hierarchical
2. Product-Centric
3. Strong-typing
4. client-Specified queries
5. Introspective

## Language 
Clients use graphQL query language to to make request to GraohQL services.
We refere to these request sources as documents(query, mutations and subscription) as well as
fragments,  a common unit of composition allowing for query reuse.

### **Document**:

*Document*:
* Definition[list]
      
*Definition*:
* ExecutableDefinition
* TypeSystemDefinition
* TypeSystemExtension
      
*ExecutableDefinition*:
 *  OperationDefinition
 *  FragmentDefinition

A GraphQL document describes a complete file or request string  operated on by a GraphQL serviec
or a client.

A document contains multiple definitions, either executable or represntative of a GraphQL 
type system.

Documenta are only execitable by a GraphQL service if they contain an *OperationDefinition* and
otherwise only contain *ExecutableDefinition*. However documnets which do not contain
*OperationDefinition* or **do contain** *TypeSystemDefinition* of *TypeSystemExtention*, may still
be parsed and validated to allow client tools to represent many GraphQl uses which may appear across many
individual files.

#### Operations:
*OperationDefinition*:
* OperationType Name[opt]  VaraibleDefinitions[opt]  Directives[opt]  SelectionSet
* SelectionSet

*OperationType*: one of
* query -> read-only fetch
* mutation -> a write followed by a fetch
* subsctiption -> a long-lived request

**SelectionSet**:
An operation selects the set of information it needs, and will recive exactly
that information and nothing more.
SelectionSet:
* { Selection[list] }

Selection:
* Field
* FragmentSpread
* InlineFragment

Field:
* Alias[opt]  Name  Argument[opt]  Directives[opt]  SelectionSet[opt]

A selection set is primarily composed of fields. A field describes one discrete piece of information
available to request, that peice of information could a simple type or a comlex one made of multible other types.

Fields are conceptualy functions which return values, and accasinally accept argument 
which will alter their behavoir. *arguments are unOrdered*.

example on fragments:
```
query withFragments {
  user(id: 4) {
    friends(first: 10) {
      ...friendFields
    }
    mutualFriends(first: 10) {
      ...friendFields
    }
  }
}

fragment friendFields on User {
  id
  name
  profilePic(size: 50)
}

```
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
